1. Bit masking is very fast as compared to any STL container so always give it preference.
2. Any problem related to product or divison in an array of integers can be thought in terms of square root complexity.Try chef and max star value for this and also hackerearth army power one where we need to find wether 2 elements product is equal to a given number.
3. Any problem related to xor should be approached keeping in mind two equal numbers have xor zero.
4. Whenever there is a question regarding absolute modulus try to compute things from a once calculated value as in codeforces special permutation.
5. Things like a[a.size()-1] can be very dreadful keep in mind all corner cases.
6. When you found sol with 2D matrix but constraints do not permit use try to convert into multtiple 1D array as in Operations in matrix codechef.
7. D-OR or D-XOR Best questions to think in terms of bits maximizng xor/or when a range is given.
8. In top notch implementation of seg Tree query result in [l,r) and modify function accepts zero based index.
9. Whenever we need to implement seg tree for for array where alternate operations are applied try to think in terms of distance from the vertices (to know which operation is to apply) like in xenia and bit operations in codeforces.
10. Don't skip taking input even though it is not required it would mess up later tes cases.
11. For a greedy problem always think of all possible parameters - correctness(by contradiction) and incorrectness(by counter example).
12. For segTree the only two things we need to figure out is struct node and combine function.
13. For DP the only two things we need to figure out is state and recursive formula.
14. STEP 1: Write a backtrack function or a function which tries all possible cases (generally exponential complexity).
    STEP 2: Avoid reduntant and read only arguments.(Minimize arguments).
    STEP 3: Cache it , becomes Memoization.
    STEP 4: function becomes the state and its arg as state arguments and we can deduce bottom up also.
15. Any integer that is divisble by gcd(a,b) can be written in the form of ax+by.
16. Avoid passing strings and heavy data to functions instead declare it global.
17. Dynamic Programming can be considered with both respect time and space. Time is Optimized by Memoization.
18. A normal 5000x5000 table would occupy around 100MB. So if questions says Memory limit of around 16MB it is asking for memory optimization in addition to time optimization.
19. Memory optimization can only be applied on bottom up (iterative) version.
20. https://www.commonlounge.com/discussion/e09892b9b8e14ac1be20aeeabc726d46/main refer this for the same.
21. When converting recursive to bottom up (iterative) observe one of the states and its dependence on others i.e, it depends on lower states or higher states. Best example is palindrome on common lounge.
22. Observe the nature of transition i.e, one state depends on which other states and store only those many of them thus optimizing memory. In some cases you may also need to change some parameters to obtain the same.
23. Actually this one has strict Time limit, so all solution with 2D arrays get TLE because accessing elements in very big arrays is slower than usual.
24. For problems related to games try finding out answer for all N from lower N and you would find a pattern like Divisor Game on leetcode.